# Exercise 1.1 Eloquent Models - One-to-One Relationship

- `User` has one `Company`
- Objective:
  - Create a Company model
  - Create a migration for the Company model
  - Connect the two in your models
  - Bonus: create a factory + seeder

## Generate a Company Model

The first thing to do is generate a model:

```
  php artisan make:model Company
```

Then the Company and User models needs to be edited.

## Edit the Company Model

- **Explicitly state the table that is to be used.**
  This isn't _required_ but it is more explicit. This is done because Eloquent
  converts the `camelCase`, singular name of the Model class-name to a
  `snake_case`, plural for the database table. As the singular/plural can be
  confusing for non-native English speakers, and it saves Eloquent from running
  PHP to make the name convertion itself.
- **Declare a field for the Company `name` property**
  This is done by adding an entry to the `$fillable` array class property. Other
  properties that are an _ID_ need to _not_ be exposed. Otherwise wierd things
  can happen.
- **Expose the relationship to the User Model**
  This is done by creating a `user` method that returns the relation the Company
  has to User (which is the inverse relation `BelongsTo`) by utilising the
  Model's `belongsTo` method.

Things that were **not** done but _could_ be done at this stage:

- **Declare a primary key**
  Eloquent will also assume that each table has a
  primary key column named `id`. To override this,  a protected `$primaryKey`
  property can be declared.
- **Disable `created_at` and `updated_at` fields**
  By default, Eloquent expects created_at and updated_at columns to exist on your tables.
- If you do not wish to have these columns automatically managed by Eloquent,
  set the  $timestamps property on your model to false

## Edit the User Model

The only thing that is needed in the User Model is define the relationship it
has to Company (which is `HasOne`).

## Generate a Migration

A migration needs to be created to update the database.

A starting point can be generated using:

```
  php artisan make:migration companies --create=companies
```

The created migration file has an `up` and `down` method that need to be edited.

## Edit the Migration

### Up

- Create a `companies` table
- Add auto-increment for `id`
- Add a `user_id` integer field
- Add a `name` string field
- Add a foreign constraint `user_id` that references `companies.id` on the
  `users` table and cascades on `delete`.
- Add `created_at` and `updated_at` timestamps fields

### Down

In order to roll back the migration, the `down` needs to:

- Drop the `user_id` foreign key constraint from the `users` table
- Drop the `companies` table

The foreign key needs to be dropped _before_ dropping the table. If this is done
the other way around, dropping the table will violate the constraint.

## Run the Migration

To see what the status of the migrations is, run:

```
  php artisan migrate:status
```

This will show the newest migration has not yet been executed.

To see which queries will be run when the migration is executed, run:

```
php artisan migrate --pretend
```

If everything looks okay, execute the migration to the database by running:

```
php artisan migrate
```

## Generate a Fake Data Factory

A factory can be generated using:

```
php artisan make:factory CompanyFactory --model=Company
```

## Edit the Fake Data Factory

The generated Factory will have to be edited, so date will be generated for each
field:

- **The Company `name` field needs to populated**
  This is done using a simple (Faker) field
- **A `User` must exist so the `user_id` field can be populated**
  As this requires some logic, instead of a simple field, a callback is used.
  The callback cotains logic create a User and get it's ID.

## **Not** Creating a seed

We have not edited any of the `User` table fields. The `Company` factory will be
triggered when a `Company` is created` (to satisfy the foreign key constraint).

Because of this a TableSeeder class does not need to be created for `Company`.

## Addition information

### Combine generation commands

All three commands (Model, Migration, Factory) can be combined by running:

```
  php artisan make:model Company --factory --migration
```

### Relationships

Relationships that can be exposed are:

- **One To One**: `hasOne` ↔️ `belongsTo`
- **One To Many**: `hasMany` ↔️ `belongsTo`
- **Many To Many** `belongsToMany` ↔️ `belongsToMany`
- **Has Many Through** `hasManyThrough`