# Exercise 1.2 Eloquent Models - One-to-Many Relationship

- `Product` belongsTo `Tax`
- `Tax` hasMany `Product`
- Objective:
  - Create a Tax model
  - Create the needed migrations
  - Connect the two in your models
  - Bonus: Create a factory + seeder

## Generate a Tax Model, Migration, and Factory

```
  php artisan make:model Tax --factory --migration
```

## Edit the Tax Model

- **Explicitly state the table that is to be used.**
  This is the same as for the previous exercise.
- **Declare field(s) for the Tax properties**
  In this case `name` and `value`.
- **Expose the relationship(s) to another Model**
  Which is a `HasMany` relationship to Products

## Edit the Product Model

- **Expose the relationship(s) to another Model**
  Which is a `BelongsTo` relationship to Tax

## Edit the Tax Migration

### Up

- Create a `taxes` table
- Add auto-increment for `id`
- Add a `name` string field
- Add a `value` integer field, with a default value of `0`
- Add timestamps fields
- Add an `tax_id` unsigned integer field to the `products` table, which is nullable
- Add a foreign constraint `tax_id` that references `taxes.id` on the `products` table

### Down

- Drop the `tax_id` foreign key constraint
- Drop the `tax_id` column
- Drop the `taxes` table

## Edit the Fake Data Factory

The factory add a simple field for `name`, but for`value`,
[Factory States](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/database-testing#factory-states)
are used. This makes it possible to use _specific_ values rather than simple order
generated ones.


## Table Seeding

### Generate a Table Seed

In order for the database to be seeded with dummy date (using the fake date
factories), a [Table Seeder](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/seeding) needs to be
created:

```
  php artisan make:seeder TaxesTableSeeder
```

### Edit the Table Seed

The Seed class has a `run` method that needs to populate rows with data.

Rather than manually specifying `DB::table('users')->insert()` statements, the
fake date factories are used. This is done using the global `factory` function.

### Register the Seed

For this seeder to be run, it must be added to:

`database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php`

Care must be taken that the new seeder is added _before_ the seeder of the
Factory of the model that uses this new Model. This means the Taxes seeder must
be registered before the Product seeder which has a Tax.

## Addition information

_none_