# Exercise 1.3 Eloquent Models - Many-to-Many Relationship

- `Product` belongs to many `Category`
- `Category` belongs to many `Product`
- Objective:
  - Create a Category model
  - Create the needed migrations
  - Connect the two in your models
  - Bonus: Create a factory + seeder

## Generate a Model, Migration, Factory, and Table Seed

```
  php artisan make:model Category --factory --migration
```

## Edit the Models

### Category

- **Explicitly state the table that is to be used.**
  This is the same as for the previous exercise.
- **Declare field(s) for the Tax properties**
  In this case `name` and `description`.
- **Expose the relationship(s) to another Model**
  Which is a `BelongsToMany` relationship to Products

### Product

- **Expose the relationship(s) to another Model**
  Which is a `BelongsToMany` relationship to Categories

## Edit the Migration
### Up

- Create a `categories` table
- Add auto-increment for `id`
- Add a `name` string field
- Add a `description` string field
- Add timestamps fields

Now comes the more complex part. As this is a man-to-many relationship, a pivot
table needs to be created. This links a Product and Category together.

- Create a `category_product` table
- Add an `category_id` unsigned integer field to the pivot table
- Add a foreign constraint `category_id` that references `categories.id` on the
  pivot table and deletes on cascades
- Add an `product_id` unsigned integer field to the pivot table
- Add a foreign constraint `product_id` that references `products.id` on the
  pivot table and deletes on cascades
- Add primary keys for `category_id` and `product_id`

### Down

The same as in Up but in reverse order:

- Drop `category_id` and `product_id` foreign keys
- Drop `category_id` and `product_id` primary keys
- Drop `category_product` and `categories` tables

## Edit the Fake Data Factory

The factory simply provides values for the category name and description.

## Edit the Table Seed

### Category

A table seeder needs to be created to use the Fake Factory created above:

```
  php artisan make:seeder CategoriesTableSeeder
```

Once the seed command is run, this will make sure that categories are available.

But the Seeder for Products still need to be made aware of the categories.

### Product

The Category is added to a seeded Product by itterating over each created
Product and adding a Category. In order to make the connection once a (random)
Category has been retrieved, `sync` is used.

## Addition information

_none_